Add 2021-06-10-on-malware-naming.md (#1967)
prometheus/docs: content/blog/2021-06-10-on-ransomware-naming.md

---
title: "On Ransomware Naming"
created_at: 2021-06-10
kind: article
author_name: Richard "RichiH" Hartmann
---

As per Oscar Wilde, imitation is the sincerest form of flattery.

> The names "Prometheus" and "Thanos" have recently been taken up by a ransomware group. There's not much we can do about that except to inform you that this is happening. There's not much you can do either, except be aware of it in case it pops up.

Reviewer: Maybe we can make a concrete recommendation like

```suggestion
The names "Prometheus" and "Thanos" have recently been taken up by a ransomware group. There's not much we can do about that except to inform you that this is happening.
To be safe, only use binaries from the official release pages for [Prometheus](https://github.com/prometheus/prometheus/releases) and [Thanos](https://github.com/thanos-io/thanos/releases), and verify the archives using the checksums provided there.
```

Author: AFAIK, they are not trying to trick anyone into downloading fake binaries of what we provide, just using the names.

Reviewer 2: I need to agree with @matthiasr , saying "you can't do anything" is bit untrue. I would point say (starting with what Matthias proposed):

```suggestion
The names "Prometheus" and "Thanos" have recently been taken up by a ransomware group. There's not much we can do about that except to inform you that this is happening. There's not much you can do either, except following the same security practices as before:

* Only use binaries from the official release pages for [Prometheus](https://github.com/prometheus/prometheus/releases) and [Thanos](https://github.com/thanos-io/thanos/releases), and verify the archives using the checksums provided there.
* Trust docker images from official project controlled repositories:
  * Prometheus: https://quay.io/repository/prometheus/prometheus 
  * Thanos: https://quay.io/repository/thanos/thanos and https://hub.docker.com/r/thanosio/thanos
* Build those from sources
  
We ensure as project maintainers, that no untrusted party has access to any of those sources.
```

Ideally we have page on each project with this info (:

---
title: "On Ransomware Naming"
created_at: 2021-06-10
kind: article
author_name: Richard "RichiH" Hartmann
---

As per Oscar Wilde, imitation is the sincerest form of flattery.

> The names "Prometheus" and "Thanos" have recently been taken up by a ransomware group. There's not much we can do about that except to inform you that this is happening. There's not much you can do either, except following the common supply chain & security practices. When deploying software, do it through one of those mechanisms:

Reviewer 3: Should we link to one of the articles about it to give people more context?

Author: I am torn, but you are probably right

* Binary downloads from the official release pages for [Prometheus](https://github.com/prometheus/prometheus/releases) and [Thanos](https://github.com/thanos-io/thanos/releases), with verification of checksums provided.
* Docker downloads from official project controlled repositories:
  * Prometheus: https://quay.io/repository/prometheus/prometheus 
  * Thanos: https://quay.io/repository/thanos/thanos and https://hub.docker.com/r/thanosio/thanos
* Binaries, images, or containers from distributions you trust
* Binaries, images, or containers from your own internal software verification and deployment teams
* Build from source yourself

> Unless you can reasonably trust the specific providence and supply chain, you should not use software.

Reviewer 3: While all this is great, as a reader I would immediately assume that there's a group out there that specifically tries to make people download trojanized versions of our Prometheus and Thanos, which is not the case at all. It could be good to point out that the group's name is "Prometheus" and the ransomware they use happens to be called "Thanos", but that we're not aware of any intended connection to us?

Author: Fair, will add.
